And people will still complain it looks last gen.


If it's backwards compatible then they usually don't. For instance, Switch got a ton of Wii U ports, but there was no way to play them on Switch otherwise and Wii U had abysmal sales. Wii got a few GC ports but Nintendo was trying to market motion controls. Wii U got a some Wii games digitally but it was basically Virtual Console. DS didn't get GBA ports, 3DS didn't get DS ports.    
    
Now, I can see them releasing a Switch 2 version of TotK because they are YEARS away from another system seller Zelda game.


> people in the know should be able to pinpoint the exact chip that's gonna use

The best guess right now is T239.


We already know with *pretty* high certainty it's the Tegra T239 (Ampere graphics, which is a DX12 Ultimate design - good baseline, similar feature set as the other consoles), but the problem is we don't know what node it's being manufactured on and how many CPU and GPU cores Nintendo will choose to disable and what frequency they will run them at, plus what the memory bandwidth will be, etc. All of these factors together can make the resulting chip vary from slightly-above-Xbox-One to slightly-below-PS4 Pro in performance.


Nintendo is literally the most respected developer in the industry. Their strategy is the reason why they can make games ranging from a to aaa and still make money. You can't say that for the other 2


It was hilarious to watch everyone freaking out at the NX leaks. Everyone called the leaked specs fake because there was "no way" Nintendo would make a console so weak. Meanwhile, devs had known about it for years.

In general, disappointing leaks are the most likely to be true. People who make things up tend to make up leaks that are too good to be true.


My favourite was people saying "wow we'll finally get a full console scale Pokemon game, it'll be so cool!"

If only they knew...


It's understandable that people were pretty skeptical, given that Nintendo was really not doing great at that time.


The one that made me LOL was a guy saying this meant we were getting a home console Pokemon excitedly... little did they know the most polished Pokemon games already existed.


Smell-o-vision


I think it's a little concerning for as well as the Switch did. There's usually a new gimmick with the consoles and this might shoehorn them into being a Switch-like factory. Also combining their consoles means if one fails they have to dedicate their entire company to 6-8 years of it and nothing to fall back on like the 3DS after the Wii U failed.


I've always thought they'd release a "UnSwitch" the opposite of the switch lite where the console is the dock and it doesn't have any joycons. I know there's a lot of people out there that never use the switch and portable mode. Would make sense the time to do it with a hardware enhanced version.


Don’t you mean most iterative? And least innovative from a hardware standpoint after (Wii, Wii U, and Switch).


There are also rumors that Nintendo is working with Google on a VR headset. Take it with a grain of salt, but I'd certainly like to see what Nintendo would do in VR.


Id love to see them just stick with this console, and iterate over as time goes on. But this is Nintendo, so you know they are going to do something dumb sometime soon


I’ve had the idea of like a “SwitchU” where the console isn’t portable but the switch acts as a controller to the console (or you can use regular controllers, depends on the game) that way fun WiiU games like the Luigi Ghost game from NintendoLand can exist again :’) miss that game


Switch U


Super Switch is the only choice.


New Nintendo Switch XL featuring Dante from Devil May Cry


[deleted]


> Wii U was Wii II

Wii Motion Plus was Wii 2. Switch is Wii U 2, version 2 of their console is also a handheld concept.


This is Nintendo we're talking about.  Who knows what the hell they're going to do, for better or worse


This may cause an issue, unless they go in a complete different marketing direction, we could end up with another Wii U scenario


I think the best strategy is to have an incremental console that allows for cross gen ports. Once a few years have passed and the new console is the standard, just make new gen exclusives. It's the most boring strategy though, but it would make sense since they've struck gold this gen.


The switch lite is pure handheld no?


Yep, I imagine this would drop the price quite significantly for the tens of millions of people who only use the Switch as a console:

* No need to put hardware in both the dock and console, it's just one unit
* No need for the integrated screen, touchscreen sensors etc
* No need for detachable joy-cons or magnetic strip on the sides of the unit
* No need to include built in speakers - it can rely entirely on HDMI pass through for audio
* No need for a battery

That said, it's Nintendo and they only really care about the Japanese Market, where its almost exclusively a handheld so its unlikely to happen - if anything the dock would be sold separately a la the Steam Deck.

Edit: I'm not sure why your post is controversial, options are good - few people complained about the handheld only version of the Switch!


I like Switcheroo better.


That would be great actually!


Best I can do is "Switch One".


Has Nintendo ever done a straight forward name for a sequel console? 

NES - SNES,  GB - GBA, DS - 3DS, Wii - Wii U

I fully expect Nintendo to call this the New Nintendo Switch Plus or something obnoxious


> Calling it the Switch 2 would be the most straight-forward thing they could do.

And that's why I'm confident it won't be called that.


The problem with Nintendo calling the "Switch 2" would have the same problem Xbox did when they came out with the 360 (though to a lesser extent because Sony isn't so much of a direct competitor as it was). Xbox knew they couldn't call the 360 "Xbox 2" because it would be going up against the "Playstation 3" and gives the impression that they're behind.


Yeah, but this is Nintendo we're talking about here. Straightforward numbering is not really their thing.


Exactly the Wii U naming scheme is the reason it failed it literally sounds like an add on instead of a proper next-gen console


Switch

Swiitch

Swiiitch

Swivtch


Mario Kart 8 Super Duper Deluxe


Prime 4 would be a good start, but I'd expect Mario Kart 9.


Probably also going to have the next mainline Mario game ready for it.


I see Prime 4 as a great launch window game, maybe a month or two out from launch. The hard-core are buying the system first and it would appeal to them, but it would also be the best boon for Metroid possible by getting new users to try it out during the new console hype period.


Mario 128 when?


Nintendo likely wants Prime 4 to be ready for Launch because it's a big WESTERN title release.

They'll probably have something for the casuals (like 1 2 Switch), but if the game is ready enough they'll probably release Prime 4 with the system to gauge interest in the Western Gaming Market.


Prime 4, Smash Ultimate Deluxe, Mario Odyssey sequel as launch or launch window covers a lot of ground. 


Though.... launch titles might be less important if it's backwards compatible, then it stands to reason to focus on a game that shows a huge upgrade like Prime 4.


It was already pushing its limits with Breath of the Wild and Xenoblade 2.


>Honestly, i think they should drop Prime 4 for Switch, and just make it a Switch 2 exclusive,

* Metroid already sells 'poorly', putting it on a brand new console only would be suicide for the brand. Metroid Dread is the highest selling Metroid game and has only sold 3M.
* It's target console is the Switch and is probably far in development, I doubt dropping it now would help the Switch 2 version significantly at this rate.


Since they have already announced it for Switch, i think Cross Gen is the most we'll get with that.

Straight up dropping it for Switch 1 would probably piss off more fans than it'd do good for thegame


I guess it depends if the dev team has been really struggling or not on the hardware. Keeping it available for both systems would mean substantial sales from Switch 1 owners who don’t care about graphics too much, while also being able to show off the game in full glory on S2. 

Plus, if they finally have a good software compatibility/upgrade process in place, it would give Switch 1 buyers of the game even more reason to upgrade sooner.


Pretty sure it wasn't designed to be a co-op game, nothing suspicious about it. 

The idea of splitting tasks between captains is severely downplayed compared to i.e. Pikmin 3 and the new over-the-shoulder view makes it more akin to a single player action-adventure.


It was not


Yea probably will. Not exactly a issue I like it when good developers have actual tools to work with.


What it actually means is that they won’t sell me one at launch at all, and I’ll wait for the OLED.


Yep, it's always going to be this way. The "we're trying to save production costs" is totally bunk, as they've proven to have production chains for OLED already. They know they can make us double-dip by holding off. And Nintendo isn't the only offender here which reinforces my point.


yeah but its just a remote play device which acts as an accessory. it doesnt do native playback.


An OLED wouldn't raise the price basically at all. It's not about that.


steam deck you kind lf get it as the 16:10 aspect ratio is rather unusual and there's not that much of a need for those OLED-panels.


Tbh even the 360 is a dumb name


People want to be bitter that leakers "lied" to them. They don't want to admit business plans can and will change especially during a global pandemic. Let them live their sad lives.


/r/tomorrow users are long suffering… hopefully we’ll finally be outta this tomorrow, though!


It's going to be a nightmare for collectors over the years if they plan on playing the Switch handheld due to Joycon drift.

Hopefully the Switch 2 will be fully backwards compatible.


The art direction also lends itself to having an incredibly long shelf life, too. These games can be re-released in 10 years-time with minor QoL improvements, and they'll still look great. Wind Waker HD is a good example of this.


what would a Zelda that runs at 720/1080/60fps be then? ultra super great, most gorgeous game of all time?


I mean, US presidents are every 4 years, Switch 2 has been waited for 7 so....


Series S is really all they need to target to keep competitive. Microsoft accidentally lowered the bar for them by releasing a weaker model and requiring devs to support both. And even though one game has already dropped parity between X and S, I imagine the potential of Switch-level game sales could be more motivating to some devs.


Even rendering at half the resolution of a series S would look pretty nice on a handheld. Very nice if nintendo is leveraging DLSS as much as possible.


DLSS plus likely having a 1080p screen or less. Not to mention Nvidia is just better with RTX. If this thing has DLSS 3 support it’ll be a beast


This is a win for a Nintendo console regardless, I’ll happily take Series S performance.


Some reports are saying it's comparable to PS5/Series X.


passing the eye test isn't nothing to my mind. Seems like it might signal that a future of console graphical/technical prowess having diminishing returns as far as customers are concerned might be sooner than we think.


My bet is a 1080p image with DLSS to bring it up to near-4k.

Still puts it firmly in third place behind the Series S’ original claims of being the 1440p machine (regardless of the actual numbers, IIRC that was the marketing claim) but DLSS should do a better job of cleaning that up than FSR does.


it wont


Not really?

When the switch launched it was inbetween the PS3 and PS4 in terms of power.

This rumor would place it in-between the PS4 and PS5 in terms of power.

Sounds like it's just moving forward 1 gen to me


It’s a handheld, that’s what makes it so surprising to hear.


That would make it outperform the steam deck. Nintendo haven't focussed on high-end specs since the Gamecube and instead focussed on innovation. If true, the Switch 2 would be a mix of both and is super exciting.


Wasn’t Nintendo Switch a significant power downgrade to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, despite releasing 4 years later?


Falcon might not be a good example, has their next game is launching on PS4/PS5 and switch. 

They're too small of a studio to bother with porting their games to other platform.


> No wonder Sony is making a PS5 pro.

That's a rumor.


God imagine how tight Elden Ring on the Switch 2 would be. I'd buy the game again for that frankly.


lolwut? excluding all the ps5 exclusives that you cant play on switch, there are plenty of reasons to get the ps5 over the switch.

trophies, a way better online multiplayer system, better voice and message chat, better controller, the VR headset support, a more organized storefront with less shovelware, better discounts on first party titles, better third party support, a better subscription catalog, better remote play capabilities, 4k bluray media playback, more TV and streaming apps, and the list goes on and on.

even the switch 2 wont be as powerful as a ps5 or series X. if sony releases the ps5 pro then it will be to compete with microsoft, not nintendo. nintendo hasnt competed with either of them on a hardware level since the gamecube.


I would preorder it and actually build a legitimate Switch backlog. Emulation is great, but it isn't flawless, but those flaws are usually outweighed by the increased image quality and performance over real hardware. If they can bring games on Switch to locked 60fps with increased resolution on Switch 2, that's a huge selling point over emulation on even the Steam Deck right now.


I think the game industry has accepted it's mandatory from this point on. Games take so long to make now that a console without BC is a console that won't have anything to play on it until the next console is about out. Thus Microsoft releasing so many free boosts for old games on Series X, even 3rd party games that have since most likely lost the source code.


Not upgrades, better performance.


The whole thing about DLSS (and frame gen) is fascinating. That a lot of the time it's easier and sometimes *better* to render less frames at a lower resolution and then using the free headroom on *the same hardware* to paint between the pixels and make it full res anyway.


A lot of the doubt about DLSS is from people who haven’t seen it and don’t understand what it can do. Also what the recent demos of DLSS 3.5 at Gamescom have shown for ray-traced lighting and minimising the performance hit via AI.


It also shouldn’t be underestimated that Nintendo has had the opportunity to work with them from start to finish on producing hardware that meets exactly what they want their console to deliver. Both Sony and Microsoft work with AMD, so if Nintendo asks for something from Nvidia, I imagine they get it, and at a very reasonable price, for fear of losing the entire console market to AMD.


4k is 9 times more pixels than 720p


Nintendo needs to pull a strongman move and fucking forget about 4k. We're not ready, nobody's ready, nobody perfers 4k over high framerates and most if not all people can't really tell the difference. Stupid 4k is the reason games are 100gbs. Thousands of dollars rigs barely make it to 4k. 

Nintendo should stay in its lane and shine where it shine and that's currently low power miracle.


Switch felt like it was like PS3.5 level to be honest.  This would be jumping a couple generations


Because it does


Hell if anything they outdid used prices for Wii games on Wii u. 20 dollars for Xenoblade Chronicles and Metroid prime trilogy really brought down the price of used copies


Except this leak isn’t really disappointing and, judging by the leakers track record, is probably true


I mean, ScarVi are full scaled and have a lot of good stuff in them. 

They are just held together by duct tape and a dream.


True, BOTW and the Switch pretty much saved Nintendo.


Wario game released, thousands dead


A leak I saw was with a camera on it. Like the DSi or the Wii U.


This is the fallback. The Switch represents them ceding the console market to entirely focus on handhelds because they've never faced serious competition there.

Edit: The Switch is a home console in the same way a laptop can also act as a desktop replacement. It's clearly designed with handheld use being the primary pitch performance wise and dockability being a bonus.


>I think it's a little concerning for as well as the Switch did. There's usually a new gimmick with the consoles and this might shoehorn them into being a Switch-like factory.

Is that really a bad thing?

 I'm old enough to remember when the most gimmicky thing about the new Nintendo console was the size of the discs, and it was just fine. 

 I'm sure they'll try to add *something* to this next console, but I think the Switch form-factor is a match made in heaven and honestly I'd argue it's very much along the lines of the gimmick they attempted with the Wii U anyway....just far more competently done. 

   IMO they'd be fools to seriously change it just for the sake of novelty, at least for this generation.


Yeah, but the Switch was born from the 3DS AND the Wii U. From that 'failure', they arose Phoenix-like.


A lot of us were happy with just going from Nes>Super Nes>N64>Gamecube and then we started getting experimental. The Wii worked, the Wii U was a failure, the Switch works...and if they tried to reinvent who knows what we would lose just to potentially get another Wii U.

Id rather they just perfect the Switch. Everyones copying them so they obviously hit a homerun.


>I know there's a lot of people out there that never use the switch and portable mode.

According to Nintendo's own data about 40% play mostly handheld and 50% are balanced, so it's only 10% of the Switch userbase that use it completely docked.


It doesn’t make sense for Nintendo because it would devalue the standard Switch and it would also create a 3rd profile to consider for developers.


I had always assumed that's what the rumoured switch pro was.  Switch lite for purely handheld play, a note powerful pro for purely TV play


They have new leadership and have made a lot of changes to their internal decision making processes and also how they communicate with their consumers. Their decision making has been pretty sound from a business perspective since the Switch released.  Perhaps they've learned from their past mistakes.  

But I certainly understand where you're coming from though.  I've been following this company for 30 years and the amount of times they've made completely asinine decisions is too many to count.


So basically a wiiu


Super sWiitch U 64 Entertainment System.


Don't forget "New Nintendo Switch".


Super *Nintendo Switch


I unironically love Super Switch.


I was fully in favor of that name until somebody reminded me that it would be called the Nintendo SS.


"Super" is a terrible name for a completely new console when we live in a world with "Pro" variants. It should just be Switch 2. Avoid any confusion


Wii Motion Plus considered (in this scenario) as Wii 2? Wild.


They better fix the drifting issues on their joy cons... it's almost as bad as the red ring of death issues from the Xbox era.


Thing about the Wii U is that the gimmick of the Wii had lost it's novelty near the end of it's lifespan. Hardware and software sales were both declining. The Wii U was also a bad console with not many good launch titles and a bad gimmick.

Switch is still highly successful because it's good and people like it. Give them something better? It will be a success.


I really, really hope they learned from that


That would be a classic Nintendo move though


Nintendo will likely have a much more limited cross gen approach compared to PS and Xbox. Titles like Metroid that aren’t massive system sellers will likely be cross gen as they’ll benefit from the larger userbase, but flagship releases like Mario kart or Smash will definitely be next gen exclusive even if they launch early on.


yes, sort of. it depends on how you classify it. while it is technically a handheld, its ultimately just a variation of the already existing switch, and they both play 99 percent of the same library. 

this isnt the same comparison as the wii compared to the DS, where one was objectively a home console with its own exclusive library of games while the other was specifically a handheld with its own library. with the switch the line gets blurred between the normal model and the lite model because they're both essentially the same thing. 

its like how a tomato is considered a fruit but a lot of people call it a vegetable because of how its utilized.


Well, the detachable joycons have motion controls and so some games can only be played through detaching them, such as Ring Fit Adventure (one of the best selling games on the switch).


Switch Series S and X. Please refer to this marketing material on which is "the good one" and why they don't look alike.


I swear MS is memeing with their console names.


Super Advanced 3Switch U it is


>Has Nintendo ever done a straight forward name for a sequel console? 

You act like that prohibits them from changing that up lol


Yes. Until the Wii U.   
Nintendo. Better one? Super. Plays 64 bit games? Nintendo 64.   
Gameboy. Add color? Gameboy Color. Better one? Advanced  
DS - 3DS (plays 3D games). 3D bad for kids? no problem 2DS  
Wii. Better one? U...huh?   

They did a decent job of describing what the console was until the Wii U. 

The switch is a bit more abstract in that you can switch from a docked home console to a portable, but the Wii U, was just too abstract. It apparently was named that because the Wii was meant to be a party console but the Wii U was meant to be a solo console or something, but to me that was just too far of a reach. 

Super Nintendo Switch is one a lot of people throw out, but I'm not sure how well that'll work. Nintendo has completely dropped the 'entertainment system' part of the naming, as 'nintendo' simply became the casual name of the console for most people. Nintendo Switch instead got shortened to Switch. So Nintendo Super Switch could be better, but they've never really repeated the term they use for 'better one'. Also Super Nintendo Switch abbreviates to SNS which is a common acronym already. I think they'd want to avoid pro as that's a term already used by the other companies. A couple of other words they could use: Elite, Prime


I hadn't considered that - it's not a bad point


There's enough of a gap between 2 and 5 that I don't think anyone will think a Switch 2 is old and a PS5 is newer. Plus nobody thinks this is only the 2nd console Nintendo ever made


If only they could just skip numbers like they do with Windows


shoulda just called it xbox 3 then and say 2 was lost in an alternate reality


NEW Mario Kart 8 Deluxe


[deleted]


All DLC included!


They'll just tilt the 8 and make Mario Kart ∞, because it will last forever at this rate.


Super Mario Kart 9 will be 12 new tracks with all the DLC from 8's DLC drip fed over the next 2 and a half years.


Also, if the graphical leap is as impressive as it sounds, a first party FPS with a strong art design wouldn't be the worst way to show that off.


Xenoblade 2 on my 4K was one of the roughtest things I've ever seen in a game.


BOTW? Not really, that game was built for the Wii U, XC2 i can see how it would.


prime 1 sold 2.8 for a near-ish launch title, and is one of the best selling gamecube games


Metroid Prime Remastered is not only one of the highest reviewed games of 2023, but it sold a million copies in one month.

You're wild to think Prime 4 wouldn't sell just as well as that or Dread. Especially if it's a Launch title to a new system. This is like saying Twilight Princess is gonna bomb because Wind Waker sold like shit on the Nintendo Wii.


Your crazy if you think it's not coming out for the new console, it might do a BOTW and release on both but it's been in development Hell for years and it's absolutely going to be on the new console


The thing is, the average Metroid fan is likely a major Nintendo fan, so the system would be a day one purchase for them, i doubt that it could really hurt the game.


i bought a switch for mp4 and id rather they move it to the switch 2.  with how long ive waited whats another year?


Exact reason why I’m not buying persona 3 remake right now and any future persona games that come out


I'm sure it would up costs by a bit, but I figured if they were already doing premium options...


True, but it worked.


Yea it was so dumb of a name, you turned 360 degrees and walked away from it


Its pretty trivial to swap out the sticks to hall-effect sticks.


It would also look good. Doesn't mean that the existing games don't.


there is 1 3d zelda that runs at 60fps across all systems, and it is a half emulated port of a wii game


Of course, Nintendo missing the release window for their next console would have far more devastating consequences than missing an election for the US.


[deleted]


BG3 is going to have it on both - just XSX first then eventually XSS when they've done further optimizations.


no fucking way. not calling you a liar ofc but thats just so hard to believe.


That would be absolutely awesome. People always say Nintendo doesn't need power to make the games they make. And that's technically correct. But they will benefit from power and we all know it will sell regardless of price.


That seems ridiculous. No way they can get close to that performance while being portable.


I'll believe it when I see it.


Shit if that's true and I can still play my old Switch games on it, that's a day one buy for sure then.


god, imagine a Xenoblade game with with the fidelity of a current gen console. Those open worlds really deserve it.


That actually makes sense as these consoles are now three years old. Nintendo with that kind of visual prowess and optimization will be incredible.


Considering the switch was already 2 behind to begin with, it's possible


It would be funny if the Switch 2 was just a steam deck running a Switch emulator


I mean, the Steam Deck plays current gen games so it's not that surprising. I've said before that all Nintendo needs to do is have the Switch 2 be on par with the Steam Deck with a better battery life and they'll be golden.


I’ve heard it described as a “ps3 and a half” worth of power


Only Ys. The president said in interview that Kuro is exclusive to PS4/5 because they target higher graphical fidelity.


That and Sekiro and all the Souls games.


Nintendo is one of the most greedy companies that exist and doesn't care what the consumer wants. I would be shocked if you can run your old games on it. 

Its much more likely they sell you all the same games at a slightly higher price, they are probably spending 50% of the development time ensuring they lock down the console better than the switch1


If you told me back in the days that AI generating stuff in realtime would be faster than using actual stuff I would have never believed you but ... here we are!


Frame gen isn’t magic. You already need a high level of performance or you get bad input lag. For Frame Gen you need to be getting already 60-70fps already.

Frame Gen is not gonna be very useable on consoles imo.


It doesn't need to run  *natively* 4k. 

It can run natively at 1080p or even 720p and have its video resolution DLSS'd up to 4k. Again, not real "4k" . The image quality will just look good enough that most people won't really notice or care that it's not actually real 4k.

https://youtu.be/_gQ202CFKzA?si=Mj7iATPA4dbkhau0


I mean, Switch 2 being a PS4.5 isn't jumping a couple of generations, it's just one.


But also they had to release the switch earlier than planned probably, since the Wii u was a bomb. Or whatever prototype they had before.


Saved Nintendo? I mean yeah, the Wii U was a giant flop but with the amount of Wii's they've sold I really struggle to imagine them being on the ropes after just 1 bad console cycle


The power of garlic is just too strong.


The Switch is also a home console though, and probably also competes in that space.

There are many times when I’m debating if I should buy the PS5 or Switch version of a new game.


But.. the switch is also a home console


The switch not only works as a home console, it's the best one for 2+ party play


Those disc sizes weren’t just a gimmick, they were supposed to be harder to copy. And unfortunately, their *capacity* was also smaller, which is why a lot of major games like GTA never saw a GameCube release. It may have been a cutesy gimmick for the end user, but those small discs sealed the fate of the GameCube more than any other decision Nintendo made in that generation.


Either way: the flagship model should always be the most powerful one, so even an undocked model would run the same specs.

And having the flagship model be a home only console destroys the entire concept.


I’ve had mine since launch day. The dock is still in the box.


50% of people okay their switch with the stand out? Is that what balanced means? That’s wild if so,


No more than the switch lite did


Sony had the PSTV, Nintendo could do similar.


Yeah! But with many wiiu tablets connected, local multiplayer games could be sick!


GameCube erasure


Excuse me, I think you mean Super Nintendo Switch Entertainment System.


I feel like it's such a no-brainer for Nintendo. Alliteration, a nostalgic nod to Super Nintendo, and a fun name to choose for a company that wants to be associated with family-friendly fun.


Ehhhh, I get what you're saying but I feel like Nintendo's 'Super' moniker still holds enough cache for consumers to understand that it's a new console in a way that the 'U' suffix infamously didn't.


They don't want to seem like they're copying Sony.


Nah, the Wii U was pretty good but it didnt have enough games in time. There's a reason why most first party games for the Switch are 8 year old Wii U ports.


Back when they marketed the Wii U they forgot to say it's a new console, not an add-on. People just thought it was an accessory.


[deleted]


That's not what they've done with Zelda over the two previous console launches though.


Neat, sell them as an accessory for people to get them if they want to play games that require it.


Dont forget about the Switch One X.


I'm not saying it can't happen, just keeping my expectations in a certain place

Hell, Sony is basically the only console company that's done numbered iterations as far as I can remember


A&W tried selling a 1/3 pounder burger for the same price as McDonald's 1/4 pounder.  A&W lost that battle, because most people thought McDonald's burger was bigger.

Never underestimate how stupid people are.


That would actually be kinda sick


My 250h in Xenoblade 2 made the investment in the mCable worth it. Anything helps with that game.


BOTW was locked at 30fps at a resolution of 900p upscaled to 1080p and *still* had frame drops on the Switch while docked. It was definitely pushing its limits. Playing the game at 4K/60fps on PC (CEMU emulation) is such a treat in comparison.


> BOTW

In some areas the frames drop a lot. The game was clearly pushing the limit of the Switch. And I only played it docked.


The switch is not more powerful than the Wii-U really. It is strong enough to run Wii-U games but not much past it. Botw struggled to run in quite a few areas.

Also Xenoblade 2 ram at like 240p in a lot of areas. It's a great looking game but it does not run well.


The wii u is about as fast as a switch if not faster.


>and is one of the best selling gamecube games

Not a particularly high bar


>Your crazy if you think it's not coming out for the new console,

Read my comment again, carefully this time


Metroid fans aren't a big demographic. The best selling Metroid gane sold like 3 million copies, saying it's not a system seller it's an understatement.


Of the franchises that Nintendo could use as a launch title system seller, Metroid probably isn't a terrible choice but definitely isn't at the top of the list either. 3D Mario and Zelda are the big ones, and I think at this point Splatoon or even an ambitious new MonolithSoft title could probably push a system out the door more than Metroid could.

But speculation is often kind of moot with Nintendo's left-field thinking.


don't assume please


Ah the old " I bought a ps3 for kingdom hearts 3" curse.


I’m legitimately confused how that has anything to do with what I said.


So towards it?


I didn't know that there's Hall Effect Sticks for Joycons. Gotta look into it, thanks.


It's very easy to bork your joycons changing out the sticks yourself.

Hall sticks also cost quite a bit.


Unironically, yes.


I suspect he meant performance competitive not market competitive but, yes, the performance of the Switch and its successor is almost irrelevant. Nintendo games are going to sell regardless.


The series s lowers the bar for the hardware Nintendo needs to develop in order to achieve adequate parity with current gen platforms, thus making it easier for developers to port existing and future titles to switch 2, which has been the only major pain point for switch I can personally identify.

Aka they are gonna dominate even harder with switch 2.


While I do think Nintendo definitely needs to get with the times in terms of tech I agree with you, people buy Nintendo consoles because of Nintendo games not how powerful the console is.


[deleted]


Apparently they ran the Matrix demo that was used to show off the capabilities of Series X/PS5. 

They used DLSS and said visually is comparable to Series X/PS5.

EDIT: https://www.videogameschronicle.com/news/sources-nintendo-showed-switch-2-demos-at-gamescom/

You people are crazy


It doesn't have to be.

Of course it won't get anywhere close in terms of raw computing power, but using shortcuts like designated cores just for Ray-Tracing as well as the fact that the device is simply just much newer makes it believable to me that, in terms of visuals, it'll be close enough to make comparisons fair.

This video demonstrates what I mean:

https://youtu.be/_gQ202CFKzA?si=xYNsOELDVgog3cB7


Yeah I've seen what some texture pack mods and playing the game in 4k can do to Breath of the Wild graphically and it looks absolutely gorgeous. 

I would love to see what magic Nintendos developers could do with something as good as PS5/Series X


If they can make a machine that’s decently powerful especially vs the steam deck it’s also going to reduce emulation by a good margin too.

My intuition tells me one of the main drivers for emulating their games is to get them running on more powerful hardware.


While true, they've put out powerful consoles before. I think the GameCube was more powerful than the PS2 (not sure about the Xbox), but it lacked the almighty DVD player and came in third that generation.


They'll sell like hotcakes without power because there is no other option. No one wants to miss out on Mario or Zelda

But it is frustrating seeing TOTK run as badly as it does. They got what they could out of that hardware but still, playing games under 1080p and still dropping to like 20 FPS is rough


I'll have a handheld more powerful than my gaming PC if it can reach Series X level of performance.


Yeah a lot of people don't understand higher technical graphics helps stylized graphics immeasurably. It makes textures pop out and offers more visual variety when it can run the games at high resolution and offer longer draw distances, more actors on the field, etc... Zelda looks a million times better on PC modded than on the Switch. I feel these games will age extremely well on a new platform especially.


Thing about that is, some third party games have not launched on or run poorly on the Switch, even basic bitch Unity games.

Nintendo are missing out on a huge piece of the pie by not having better hardware to support a wider selection of games.

Considering how large the Switch install base is, I'm surprised they haven't upped their hardware game sooner.


It probably won't be that resolution but you could probably get the same graphics settings at 720p with portable. Doesn't need to be much more than that for a handheld. Potentially could do 720p and use DLSS to bump it to 1080p in handheld. 

Then docked do 1440p and use DLSS to bump it to 4k.


Agreed, and it's pretty telling they just say 'comparable' instead of simply giving some actual numbers. Most things can be considered 'comparable' if you stretch the meaning enough.


Dear Jesus Christ imagine Xenoblade


[deleted]


It's a handheld, not a plugged in console.  There are limitations that can't be summed up by calling it "2 generations behind".


Serious doubt.


Steamdeck runs outdated 2020 tech. Thing will be so underpowered compared to a Nvidia based console with DLSS releasing in late 2024.


Steam deck is comparable in power/performance to last gen consoles, not current.


The Switch has GOT to be your first Nintendo console because what the hell is this take...    
    
Here, [educate yourself](https://i.imgur.com/Yn1NQrP.jpg).


Yeah, they weren't even close. There was an article some years back about how Nintendo can run at a deficit of $250 million p/yr and still survive until 2052.


It wasn’t just a bad console cycle, iirc one of the years during the Wii U age was Nintendo’s worst year ever financially



It wasn't just one bad console.  Every console from the SNES to the Wii U sold less than its predecessor besides the Wii, which was viewed as a fad at the end of its life cycle and the Wii brand was not enough to carry a successor. The casual market had moved on.  The Wii ultimately was an outlier in the downward trend in their home console business.  Nintendo has an enormous war chest, but executives have even admitted that the Switch was a do or die moment for the company.  If it floundered it would've been extremely difficult for them to ever recover their reputation in the hardware business among developers, shareholders, and consumers.  Perhaps they would've made handhelds still, although phones and tablets fill the niche for so many people nowadays.  It's likely they would've become a dedicated software company like Sega decided to do after the Dreamcast underperformed directly after the Saturn failed.  

The Switch, and more importantly it's year 1 lineup of great games, saved Nintendo from that fate.


I don't own a PS5 yet. I have a launch PS4, and I still debate which console to get games on. If the Switch 2 can run games that would work on the Series X/S and PS5, it would be even more common.


They *were* harder to copy, piracy was practically non-existent on the Gamecube. Meanwhile the PS2 was so open everyone's dad knew a Turkish guy who could get you a full binder of games for cheap.

Remember that Nintendo was more profitable than Playstation during those years.


No balanced mean they use both modes regularly.


The Switch lite doesn't devalue the OG Switch and it doesn't create any extra work for developers.


ah yes because the PSTV went famously well for sony


The PSTV was a massive failure. Its a cool device, but when aiming for success and sales its not really something to be put on a pedestal.


So… the switch itself isn’t an actual console, just a screen controller. A straight sequel to Nintendo’s least successful console. And you expect households to spend hundreds of dollars on extra tablets that can only be used at home…

Ngl that actually sounds awful. And you can already bring your switch to someone’s house and play them from your own screen, so it’s pretty much worse in every way.


Fuck I forgot. Entertainment Cube then.


That's too logical for Nintendo. It will be Switch U.


Internet bubble thinking. The amount of young and casual people in the switch demographic who wouldn't know the NES/SNES connection is vast. Would be foolish to muddle the waters for a pointless reference.


I think you're underestimating how many gamers now are too young to remember the SNES.


If only we could get those Wind Waker and Twilight Princess ports


Nothing about the Wii U hardware was pretty good. It looked like cheap toy, it was underpowered, the gimmick was rarely, if ever, used well, and it was pretty expensive. The only positive was that it played Nintendo games.


This only works if the new switch is a reasonable price, the 3DS was initially a huge failure due to price.  Also there was not a wii version of BOTW



>Having a Wii and Wii U version of BOTW backfired.

What do you mean it backfired? It's the best selling Zelda by a long way, if anything it did the opposite of backfire.

Also, there wasn't a Wii version of BOTW


Both of the times they did a cross gen Zelda, the previous generations were unsuccessful, and the games themselves were primarily developed and initially promoted as games for the previous gen.


May I interest you in a game called Modnation Racers


GameCube didn't do that bad. Compared to previous and later Nintendo consoles it definitely sold on the weaker end but they sold about as many GameCube as Xbox has series S/X


prime 1 was one of the best selling gamecube games though, despite the general lack of sales for the series. depending on the game and marketing it could still work, nintendo hasn't had a """hardcore""" 1st party title for a while, the closest is xenoblade x or astral chain depending on how you want to argue this


My best guess is they meant they won’t be buying the games at launch, because Atlus has made improved versions of the games not too long after since P3.


Every persona game comes out for full price then a couple of years later they come out with an enhanced version that could have been dlc for full price again.


yep, Guilikit.

https://www.amazon.com/gp/aw/d/B0BQ2FCQ9N/?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_plhdr=t&aaxitk=8e5d23953e21b0ba50bfd66c9e56cde1&hsa_cr_id=0&qid=1694113239&sr=1-1-9e67e56a-6f64-441f-a281-df67fc737124&ref_=sbx_be_s_sparkle_mcd_asin_0_title&pd_rd_w=SW5cI&content-id=amzn1.sym.cd95889f-432f-43a7-8ec8-833616493f4a%3Aamzn1.sym.cd95889f-432f-43a7-8ec8-833616493f4a&pf_rd_p=cd95889f-432f-43a7-8ec8-833616493f4a&pf_rd_r=M5HR1H75179PX3XRZMRM&pd_rd_wg=bqIXC&pd_rd_r=fc4f33e1-a99a-40d4-9ae4-bb011730c5fd


I can foresee this next switch is going to be a blockbuster seller.  Add to the fact, if some rumors are true and that its backwards compatible with the first Switch, so many Nintendo gamers and new fans are going to roll over to the next system.


Obviously Nintendo games are going to sell.  The point is if Switch 2 is comparable to Series S performance wise, AAA developers can much more easily make a Switch 2 version which will then move a shit ton more copies then they would if they just kept ignoring Nintendo since it's been too underpowered.  Performance of Switch hadn't been irrelevant the past six years, and performance of Switch 2 won't be irrelevant moving forward.


Not only that, but Nintendo, their EPD teams, Monolith and Retro Studios are Optimisation Gods. Their 1st party games having access to Series S tier specs + amazing art direction + DLSS tech to run games at natively lower resolutions but higher display resolutions means we're going to see some ground breaking levels of polish,

Obviously it won't be as good as actual PS5 exclusives. 

But I don't think people here are ready to see just how big the leap in visuals is going to be. The next Mario, Zelda, Metroid and Xenoblade games are going to make people shit themselves.


https://www.polygon.com/23844411/baldurs-gate-3-xbox-series-x-release-date-2023

Microsoft and Larian are committed to working on providing split screen support on the Series S post launch. Per that thread. I trust Larian on this and if they can't deliver split screen then I know they'll at least tell us why and just not say anything about it.


Sweet baby Jesus, even reaching the power of ps4 pro would be nice at this point honestly


Unless the Switch 2 has 5-minutes battery life, there's no way it's even close to PS5/XSX.


I mean... I'm sure it looks like that on a 7 inch screen, but they're not getting the performance of a PS5 in a 15w package. I'm sure it looks great, but it's not magic.


i definitely agree that it doesnt have to be. but saying that it is would be quite a bold claim. Nintendo has never really prioritized cutting edge so it would be a significant shift in focus. would be super cool tho.


Also 60fps or more


The issue is that nintendo gets away with their current development strategy because they use charming art direction rather than intense graphics to provide a visually impressive experience.  Good art design and direction is much cheaper and less time intensive than high end graphics.  In a sense they are competing asthetic goals.  Just like realism and impressionism, hi-fi video games and nintendo asthetics are competing ideas.


Emulation isn't a thing because Nintendo systems aren't powerful, Nintendo could easily get more games running on the switch with vc. They just don't.


I honestly didn’t feel the performance issues as much as I did with BOTW, which was horrible for me.  I definitely agree I’d love to see it perform better, but I stop short of calling it “rough.”


They're waiting for the right opportunity to.  You don't want to jump the gun.  Consider that reason the Switch was so successful because in its first year it had two blockbuster 10/10 games in their most popular franchises, as well as loads of other fun games to fill in the gaps.  They need to ready up its successor to have a similar pipeline of games on the calendar before they launch it. Games they fully take advantage of the new hardware.  Apart from the Wii U being a marketing failure, it failed because it never had a solid lineup of must have games.  Nintendo can't make this same mistake with the Switch 2 and they won't.


Nintendo was pretty open about wanting 10 years out of the Switch. We are on the cusp of the 7th year soon. Assuming they announce in the spring, launch for holiday 2024 that still leaves 3 years where they will passively support the Switch.


Even with DLSS. Steamdeck is roughly as powerful as a 720p ps4 while being way bulkier and more expensive.

I get that ARM is more efficient and DLSS can help but ps5 levels of performance would be insane in a device with similar size to the switch.


You don't need resolutions that high in a small screen.


If they can catch up to Steam Deck that's already part way there


You can overclock the shit out of it when docked. I can see nintendo offering a docked 60fps mode or something.


No, it's a handheld AND a plugged in console. Maybe it could match current gen when docked.


No one should expect this console to be on par with current gen. Especially based on second hand account of a demo looking good. 

Will be great if this has DLSS as that would do a lot of heavy lifting.


Thats fine, most games are still made with PS4 in mind.


These conversations always leave out the fact that every handheld release during that time did perfectly well.

Nintendo was in zero danger during that time period, they had a strong lineup of first party titles and at least one section of their hardware was consistently selling well


Okay, that makes Sense. Thank you for the clarification, it wouldn’t have come to me otherwise


The PSTV was a (badly marketed) off shoot of a system that already sold poorly. There's certainly a market for people who want to play Nintendo's games but don't want to pay $350 for an OLED or even $200 for Lite.


As already said, the PSTV was based on the PSVita, which already didn't sell well. And a lot of the PSHandheld titles were physical releases, that the PSTV didn't support and weren't on PSN.

A SwitchTV would sell fine, there shouldn't be a need for it to be a top-seller outside of it being profitable enough. And the point wasn't about success, just that this is not a new idea.


Multimedia Hexahedron.


Bolder prediction: They add a camera for AR stuff and call it the Snap.

It's just the right amount of stupid gimmick that nobody asked for.


Switch SU, standing--for some reason--for Switch Super U.


New Switch XL U


the lack of those ports is driving me insane. the wii u gamepad is literally just a menu, and you can play without it just fine already. and nintendo has done direct 32-bit wii u ports plenty. wtaf is going on with these games


Yup. I enjoy(ed) my Wii U, but 90% of that enjoyment was games being good, nothing about the hardware. I'd say the only times I liked the hardware being what it was was for Nintendoland, and swapping items in Zelda without pausing. Windwaker was way better when I could swap items while sailing before I landed at my next spot.


I absolutely HATE the wii u gamepad just because you NEED one to set up a console or change the settings. This is already a bit of a problem in the second hand market because people are more likely to lose/break a gamepad than the actual console. And the protocol thats used between the gamepad and the wii u still hasn't been cracked/emulated so you can't just get a chinese clone or do some homebrew stuff.

(And they're region locked for no reason at all. If you use a homebrew/dev tool you can even change the region of a gamepad. But that requires an already homebrewed wii u)


I never mentioned the hardware specifically. That's not what Nintendo never was famous for. It was the games. And they games were seriously lacking for Wii U. Both first party and third party.


I'd say one of the worst blows to the WiiU was that the one game that was going to best make use of the gimmick, BotW, was so clearly redesigned to no longer do so. Personally speaking, I feel like it's super obvious that originally the Sheikah Slate was supposed to be used in real time(so you could use abilities, inventory etc. from the slate while you played). But when they decided to make it a switch game that functionality was shelved.

&#x200B;

This is a pure guess, and I might be wrong on this, but I'm personally pretty certain of it. Not saying that this functionality was implemented and then shelved mind you, just that I am certain that's what the original concept was, it might not ever have been actually usable for the game before they decided to make it a switch game.


The 3DS became really huge after the price drop, though.  The Wii U... did not.

